how to win at SAS
[Music]
SEO so in this episode we're going to be
diving into common mistakes and pits
when it comes to SAS SEO and why it gets
neglected so much at the time we're
going to talk about why you should
consider SEO for your company and we're
going to go through a bit of a checklist
from initial research planning instru y
right through to execution and things
like building links Partnerships and all
that good stuff but with that said let's
dive straight into it and I'll fire up
my screen right now so first things
first SAS SEO B2B SEO in general what
are some of the common issues common
mistakes common red flags I see well so
often B2B sites in general are thin on
content which doesn't help SEO at all so
they quite often have Pages like home
about maybe services or
product maybe testimonials then a demo
page or contact page something like that
super thin on content which right from
the start is going to make it difficult
for your site to rank if you've only got
a few pages we'll get into that more in
a
sec secondly quite often SEO folks or
folks in general in the marketing team
might go for super high volume keywords
um I.E keywords that got hundreds or
thousands of
visits traffic on Google each month
which isn't always the best strategy and
we'll get into defining what's called
money keywords at high intent that drive
qualified Demos in a
second many businesses this is more on
the exact level CSO is a tick boox
exercise IE they get their marketing
lead they realize that companies are
constantly ahead of them on organic
search and eventually get round to SEO
and then they'll say to their marketing
manager or marketing leader can you do
some SEO this month the marketing
leaders probably already get hundred
other jobs to do in the month everyone
sees it a tick boox exercise maybe they
they do a bit of keyword research find
an article that might have a few
searches per month produce the article
forget about SEO publish the article
then a few months later the the exact
team ask how SEO is going the marketing
lead say yeah I did some SEO I published
the blogs like you said but hasn't
actually droven any qualified leads
demos or signups because there wasn't a
thoughtful strategy behind it another
issue is SEO is often seen as the bottom
of the barrel exercise when it comes to
marketing spend so quite often B2B tech
companies SAS companies especially are
guilty of assigning all the budget ads
to events to outbound Partnerships
influencer marketing and SEO often gets
given the last bit of budget or resource
um and it can be hard to get the exec
team bought in especially if you're
under pressure from investors therefore
want to see super quick results and
quite often you can get impact from SEO
with the right strategy within 90 days
but sometimes even that is not seen as
quick enough for
investors sometimes companies just lack
the internal resource KN how maybe
they've got a team of marketing that are
super small or only one in the marketing
or less so they don't necessarily have
time to get round to it and therefore it
gets neglected um or one I see quite
often especially in SAS is the companies
or agencies or contractors waste way too
much time budget or resource on
technical SEO and in my opinion
technical SEO only really needed at High
level when I'm talking about detailed
technical audits when you're getting to
sites with hundreds and hundreds or even
thousands of pages and we we'll get to
that now in a second so why should you
why should you consider SEO for your B2B
Tech or SAS company or Service Company
well Evergreen content so just like on
YouTube your content your pages that
rank can bring in leads can attract
prospects not just now but for months
and years to come so just like when you
do a search on YouTube how to do
something best ways to do something
something you're looking for comparisons
whatever you're looking at whatever it
might be on YouTube you might see videos
that are months old or even years old
which exactly the same as SEO your pages
can rank in the shortterm medium-term
and longterm making a a steady flow of
eyballs leads opportunities for your
content helps you stop relying on ads be
that Google ads be that LinkedIn ads or
elsewhere um can also reduce your your
payperclick cost over time with many
people placing more importance in the
organic search results so many folks
know what's paid result in Google and
many folks Place more importance in the
organic
results it can help ramp up a
sustainable flow of leads for your sales
team making them happier builds a big
one in the B2B space is it builds up
trust and M share so as you probably
know especially if you're you're selling
High ACV High average contract value
items in B2B folks don't just suddenly
go on your website and decide to buy
especially if it's a high ticket item
there's multiple stakeholders multiple
exacts involved in the buying decision
and buying Journey so if teams are
constantly seeing you top of organic
search when they need your offer when
they're comparing you to Alternatives
when they're searching for problems you
fix or searching for jobs you get done
it's going to build up that mind share
and help keep you top of Mind as one of
the top vendors to choose so that's it
so let's dive into the
checklist so first things first one of
the foundational things I recommend when
it comes to your SAS SEO is prioritizing
what I call Money keywords
I.E what is someone one what is a dream
client going to search for when they
have super high intent to speak to a
salesperson around your
offer so and anyone who wants this sheet
I can share this sheet afterwards so I'm
doing I'm prioritizing money keywords
this is a bit of an example what I'm
going to go through is how you can do
offer and Industry keywords jobs to be
done keywords Alternatives keywords
super good and SAS best of keywords
versus keywords and then integration
keywords and in this example I am
talking about proposal space so in the
propos I'm using this as an example so
proposal software in the SAS space and
if we take proposify as an example so in
this case I'm using I actually know Kyle
who
runs proposify
he's been on my podcast breaking B2B a
while back so let's pretend we are a
proposal software SAS this might be how
we Define our money keywords to attract
High intent buyers with our SEO campaign
and make sure it's a success in the
shortest time possible so we want to
let's say our offer is proposal software
maybe the whole point of this exercise
is we mapping out our main offers the
main niches we want to serve and these
niches have to have the problem we fix
they have to actually understand the
impact of the problem we fix they have
to want to fix the problem and they have
to easily have cash to invest in the
offer like one of the mistakes I made
early on in business was try to Target
everyone and every everyone and anyone
and some of these folks just simply
didn't have they believed we could help
them they had the problem we fixed but
they just didn't have the the cash to
invest in our offer so when you're doing
this make sure you're targeting
industries that you've proven and that
can easily afford your offer otherwise
it's a waste of everyone's time so in
this case proposal software is the offer
one of the targets Industries might be
sales teams but another might be
HR Finance might be another
one let's see Recruitment and all these
will help influence our landing pages
that we build out we'll talk about in a
sec that gives us a few for now then
this is probably the keyword or
something similar that it might be
proposal software for sales or proposal
software for HR or Finance proposal
software or recruitment proposal
software tools something like that
that's one option for one potential
money keyword which is what someone in
our Target industry needing an offer
might search for right let's go to type
two keyword slightly less intent but
often neglected when it comes to SAS SEO
jobs to be done based keyword so what is
your what are your target Pro Prospects
your dream clients what is the problem
they face and they kind of realize they
get to that stumbling point and they
need that they need your offer but they
don't actually know that your offer
exists so in The Proposal software space
it might be how to write proposals that
convert or why aren't my sales quotes
turning into business or how to get my
sales proposals opened or how to convert
more sales proposals so customer
research is super important when it
comes to SEO it's often neglected so
actually speaking to your sales team
your customer success team team folks
that are doing prospecting for you and
understanding what are the bleeding neck
expensive problems that folks face and
what is that Tipping Point when they
realize you need they need your offer
and then building out how to how-to
content that Ma matches that job to be
done that struggling moment can be super
impactful so that's a second type of
keyword you can
consider now probably one of the most
powerful in my opinion types of keywords
for SAS are alternatives based keywords
so I know for a fact
proposify so if we look at proposify as
a proposal software tool one of the main
competitors is Panda do but I know
another one is get accept and if you're
a SAS company you'll probably know a
bunch of your Alternatives but one of
the best ways to find it if you don't is
just to head to a site like
G2
or it might be trust radius or whatever
reviewbased site is relevant for your
offer and then you can just type in your
offer or this category that you're in
and then you can see all the competitors
that are actually going to make sense
that we might want to build Alternatives
Pages for and I'll talk about how we can
build those pages in a second let's get
back to our
sheet so yes make a list of all your
Alternatives and we can talk about how
those pages work Alternatives pages are
super useful for folks that are
comparing offers maybe on the fence and
they want to kind of select two to three
four vendors but but they're not quite
sure whether to go with one of them and
this can be a super good way to scoop up
demos or signups so we'll talk about
that in a sec next type of keyword is
best best of so in this case it might be
best proposal software or best proposal
tools
best
proposal platform or it might be
sales proposal platform
that's another type of keyword that can
work super well those tend to be lisal
type Pages again we can dive into those
in a sec and then last one could be
integration like and that could be not
so relevant I don't think for proposify
but that's more relevant for more
technical perhaps if you're serving
developers as your idal client profile
and that might be like integrate
HubSpot
with proposal tool it's basically
talking about use cases so if there's
two types of software that need to link
together like integrate HubSpot with
apia or whatever the kind of
Integrations you need it can be quite a
good way for folks that don't know your
software that actually connects the two
or makes the two sing together you
basically have an article that says okay
you're facing this problem here's one
way of doing it or there's a much
simpler way that's 10 times faster and
quicker and then you introduce your new
solution and it's a great way to drive
free signups if you've got a plg free
based
SAS yeah that gives you a bunch of ideas
what I should have said earlier is why
should you trust me why should you trust
Sam Dunning or breaking B2B for this
advice well we launch breaking B2B start
of 2024 within 90 days of launching on a
brand new domain with zero Authority
we've got to 2.22k organic High intent
traffic value of that traffic is nearly
19k we've got keywords like B2B SEO
agency we search here B2B SEO agency
organic position one in the UK US EU a
bunch of other countries following this
process I'm sharing with you so we quite
literally practice what we preach and
help SAS and B2B companies get organic
results in the fastest time possible so
that is some tips around identifying
your money keywords understanding the
focus niches the focus offers that you
want to serve jobs to be done
Alternatives best of
versus and integration based keywords so
that's that and then once you've built
those all out you can run those through
a tool like hat refs and you can see
what keywords make sense you probably
want to you want to go you want to
actually make as many as you can because
what we'll talk about in a sec is
publishing at scale when we talk about
how to build those pages and judge the
intent but you can use a tool like HF to
judge what's the keyword difficulty of
that keyword how how how roughly how
much competition it's got um and there's
a few other points you can use with
tools like HFS to kind of Judge what
keywords you should perhaps
prioritize one thing to remember those
keyword uh tool planners and softwares
are running on historical data so don't
use them as your kind of full north
compass so back to the
list prioritize money keywords Let's
Pretend we've made a detailed
comprehensive list we've exhausted that
to our best of our ability next up we
want to before we build out our page
before we start building quality content
at scale we want to assess the intent of
a page so is a solution page that
someone's expecting is an article page
is it a lisal page is it something else
so as an
example Let's do let's go back to one of
the best ways in
SAS so let's do the
alternative keyword process let's go for
if we go back to our proposal to example
Panda do
Alternatives
cool so if we go past the paid results
we can see top is Gartner my review site
they quite often rank quite well then
we've got Panda do actually the panda do
have built a page for their own site and
we've got quiller let's probably skip
the panda do although that is a tactic
you can build Alternatives Pages for
your own site which is quite a cool idea
let's go to drop form and then we can
see how this page is built out so
straight away if we search one of our
Target keywords Panda do Alternatives
and looks like proposal fire might be
missing a trick on this because they're
not actually ranking in the top few
results
so let's go for example the drop form
looks like they're position three or so
we can straight away see this is a lisal
type page so when someone types in an
alternative keyword usually they're
expecting to see a list of potential
opportunities in this case pandok
alternative we open up jop form 10 best
pandok Alternatives and competitors for
2024 so straight away we know if we want
to rank for this kind of keyword then
we've got to build a page that in my
opinion should should be a lot more
detailed so when I try and outrank a
page I try and completely blow out the
water whatever's ranking right now so in
this case they've got top 10 I would go
for top 15 or top 20 so if we take a
step
back and if we refer to our
checklist so we understand that this has
got to be a lisal type page if we're
going for the Alternatives based keyword
to snatch up some demo
requests
now first thing you want to look at is
what's called The Meta title and
description that shows in the search
engine results page so in this case 10
best pandadoc Alternatives and
competitors so if you were building a
page let's say for this you might go for
20 best pandadoc Alternatives of 2024
and then in your meta description that's
looks like it's sort of populated by
Google but in yours you might say find
out the top 20 alternatives to Panda do
to um kind of increase your or to ramp
up your sales proposals this year
something like that might be f fine and
then in terms of technical SEO so we
don't go super hard on technical SEO
like I said at the start of this episode
unless you've got thousands hundreds and
hundreds or thousands of pages doing the
basics is fine so in this case the URL
we recommend keeping the main keyword
within the URL so jform we've got
jotform.com blog pandadoc Alternatives
yours might be your domain.com pandadoc
Alternatives will be fine for your
domain and then a few other kind of
housekeeping rules when
H1s good tool is called SEO Pro
extension it helps you easily identify
the heading tags of a
website so on SEO Pro extension I can
see that the H1 is 10 best pandadoc
Alternatives in competitors for
2024 so you only want one H1 tag per
page and again you want your main
keyword within that H1 and likewise
within the rest of your heading tags H2
H3 H4 for the rest of your heading tags
try and weave in that Focus keyword
pandoc Alternatives naturally likewise
in your body text try and weave it in
naturally and another one to consider is
how much copy the page has so this has
got 2.2k words word count isn't the be
all and end all for SEO however if
you're doing kind of if you're trying to
completely blow this page out the water
and doing top 15 top 20 we're probably
going to be on word count anyway so
that's a few housekeeping rules get the
URL relevant to the keyword have one H1
tag with your keyword included and try
and weave in your target keyword in your
body text and in your headings as you go
and likewise within your meta title and
description so moving on usually
Alternatives page I mean Alternatives
pages will vary as they're built out few
best practices is usually you have a a
starting box that kind of says that
these are the Alternatives Or List out
usually you'll position your own offer
just like job form have done here is
number one and then you have
Alternatives below so usually there's a
bit of Spiel at the start saying this is
what you should consider if you're
building out a proposal software
obviously this can be relevant what ever
your sass or your offer is calendar
scheduling whatever it may be and then
we'll dive straight into it but where a
lot of companies go wrong on these
Alternatives based keyword Pages or
listicles is they slate their
competition they POS or they position
themselves top but they don't actually
convince folks that they're worth
choosing so it's fine to position
yourself top but you need to give people
a reason to choose you so you can talk
about things like the problems you fix I
really encourage you to think about
things like your differentiators and the
marketplace so why do folks typically
choose you over others so this is where
customer research is super key talk to
your sales team talk to your prospecting
team talk to your customer success team
understand those differentiators try and
weave in a comparison table if you can
like this is us this is our main
competitor this is what we provide this
is what what they don't and this is how
we're different once you've done that
you can perhaps weave in the a demo of
the offer itself maybe you've got a live
demo or maybe you've got some
screenshots of the offer so people can
see what the product looks like then you
might have some social proof like this
is a recent client revieww this is a
client review video build some trust and
then you might have a a call to action
like here's grab a free sign up grab a
free trial try it today or request the
demo whatever is relevant and then
you'll have a fair comparison do not
slay any of your competitors but the
rest of the competitors can then be in
the below following so if we did top 20
for this page the other 19 could be
below like I say try and keep it as Fair
as possible keep it pro and that is
basically the formatting for
Alternatives pages
so that is one way to do it if we look
at another example of common keyword in
SAS let's go for best if we keep on the
same theme best
proposal software this is going to be a
lot more competitive it's a lot more
specific breast proposal software again
this is probably listicle based so we
can see pandadoc looks like they're top
and then we've got proposify proposify
are actually linking to the homepage
which is pretty sweet Panda do linking
to a service or offer page so if we take
this offer
page so again what we want to do for
each keyword that you want to rank for
once you've assessed your money keywords
is look at the existing Page look how it
ranks again you can see in their URL
they've got their focus keyword proposal
software so pan.com or yourdomain.com
proposal software they've probably got
in the H1 if we assess
through SEO Pro extension
heading tag H1 yeah proposal software
only one H1 like I say and then they
weaved it in steadily for the other
heading tags and as we go so if we
wanted to rank this although it's super
competitive and we probably need to not
just build a best-in class page but get
some quality backlinks which you can
talk about a bit later kind of to juice
up these pages so we look for gaps that
we could improve so if we were trying to
build a solution page that outranked
Panda do we'd say at the top they've got
hair area they've got a cool to action
to book a demo or get a 14-day trial
they've got examples of their product
they got social proof of Brands they
helped underneath the fold they talking
about the features of their product and
action talking about the workflow then
they've got another cool to
action they're talking about
Integrations then they've got some
reviews from G2 some social proof and
then they've got related content so what
I'd look at straight away is where do
they fall short I'd probably spend more
time in this case below the fold talking
about problems they fix what the
bleeding neck problems that f often come
to them to resolve bit more maybe about
the workflow like what's it like using
pandadoc how are we different how do we
differen ourselves in the marketplace
compared to some of those key
competitors like what's our unique value
props what do we do that others don't um
and they've got an FAQ section at the
bottom of the page so this is one trick
that I used when it come to kind of
ranking for different context but when
it came to ranking btbs agency that we
did in 90 days which is that actually
worth $20 per click in paid search so
super competitive keyword one of the
main things I did for my page and
Breaking Me Tob was literally that
assess what was ranking well now and
look for how I could blow them out the
water so in our case we did a super
detailed FAQ section but it wasn't any
FAQs it was looking at what we get asked
on sales calls so how long does it take
to to do btb
SEO should every company do it someone
told me SEO was dead how much does it
cost and we give real
numbers why should I invest it isn't
Google ads quicker so what you'll find
is most of your competitors will be too
scared to actually address some of these
questions head on and the thing you
should consider is Google announced a
framework some time ago along with
helpful content there was something
called eat experience expertise
Authority trust and basically they want
to see that pages are written by someone
that has hands-on experience expertise
on the subject but if you're answering
real questions that folks on sales
schools are bringing up
around how much does it cost do I get a
dedicated account manager what's the
setup flow like do you have a refund
policy all these questions that your
competitors are scared to answer if you
can do that on your solution page in
your fq you're going to blow them out
the water because you're going to
provide real helpful content it's also
going to help with sales enablement
because sales can then direct people to
these pages and it will speed up sales
Cycles because most folks will be too
scared to address these questions so
it's it's a complete win the other trick
that I recommend for solution based
pages is is to weave in a YouTube video
so just like I did I believe I've got at
the top of my own SEO agency btbs ageny
page what you'll find is for some
keywords if you even a YouTube video
that's relevant to the topic IE a guide
or whatever suits the page or how to or
best over or breakdown depending on the
page format is that seems to increase
the ranking on Google also you can get
an image next to your search result on
the organic searches so it can improve
your clickthrough rate plus if we've got
example
here so if I search b2bs guide in the
video section like for my example on B2B
SEO guide that keyword I've got two
videos showing there I did have a B2B
SEO guide ranking I don't know if it is
anymore but you can snatch a ton of
results in the search search engine
results page just by having videos plus
improving your click-through rate so you
can always get three or four rankings
within this within the surup which is a
super cool tip
cool so another another couple things
that we missed so look for gaps to win
against competitors sort your met title
and description have your focus URL on
the keyword H1 tag with relevant um
keyword within only one H1 and then
heading tags as they flow and content
best-in-class content so think about
experience expertise Authority trust
whoever's crafting the
content understand the intent of the
page which we talked about then so Al
alternative keywords like pandadoc
alternative or proposal file alternative
are usually
listicles best X solution best X
software could be a solution page could
be a listicle one other one we should
look at actually before we go further is
maybe the what we touched on earlier so
industry based Pages
like proposal software for sales but it
could be for HR for recruitment whatever
so basically building out industry based
landing
pages so it looks like proposed by top
but they've got it for the homepage
a lot of these folks are doing it for
their homepage let's see if we can get a
better
example let's try proposal software for
HR yeah cool so again proposed P seems
to rank well for this and they have got
a dedicated page here for Staffing so
it's propos propos by.com Staffing
recruitment in the URL and we can see
this is a dedicated page for how they're
helping recruiting and HR companies with
their proposals so again you do the flow
that I talked about then review the page
review The Meta title description
here one tip that I like to use when it
comes to metal titles and descriptions
is to increase increase your click
through rers yeah we' in a YouTube video
that can give you an image but
also sometimes using brackets so for
example with breaking B2B for our B2B
SEO agency keyword I put b2bs your
agency in the Met um title and then in
Brackets hit your 2024 leading Revenue
goals can just make you stand out in the
in the cups and improve your
click-through rates but yeah going back
to the proposed for example so in their
case what is it proposal proposal
software for HR again you'd review the
page review the structure do all those
things we talked about there and looked
for gaps that you can improve so it
might be they're not talking about the
problems you fix in detail maybe they're
not talking about the process well
enough maybe you can weave in some
unique stats you've done maybe some
unique research unique surveys maybe
you've got a detailed video you can
embed maybe you've got some cool social
proof that they don't have um and they
they could actually they're missing a
trick they could have an FAQ section at
the bottom here it's like we talked
about earlier like why should I trust
you for my HR software how long setup do
I get a dedicated account manager how
much does it cost why should I choose
you over Panda do um what's your refund
policy so there's there's a lot of stuff
they could do to even ramp up this page
even though they're page one there's a
lot of stuff they could do to speed up
sales Cycles reduce bio friction and
encourage more conversions from
skeptical folks that land on this page
and aren't quite sure whether to book a
demo or trial so there's a bunch of
ideas there so that should give you an
idea on that's all around assessing the
intent of a page what the folks expect
for the type of keyword so you literally
look at the search results see what the
typical top three pages formatted and
look for ways to blow them out the water
based on your money keywords that you
defined at the start of the
exercise so the other thing to
consider is we talked about leveraging
customer research that's just by doing
that you can get ahead of a lot of folks
in the SEO game so if you know what your
target clients problems are the impact
of not fixing them the dream desired
State common questions objections if you
can weave those into your pages you're
going to be way ahead of most SEO folks
that are just building content to rank
because when it comes to SEO especially
in SAS if your content your content can
rank if someone lands on your page and
it doesn't resonate they're not going to
the bounce rate is going to be super
high especially if you're using AI tools
you're just putting jargon like 20x
supercharged jump up your Revenue
someone's going to be like this is
written by an AI bot and jump off
whereas if you've got content written by
someone with Hands-On expertise they're
thinking Yep this person knows my world
they know my problems um here's some I
can see that they've done work in our
area they're answering my questions okay
let's book a trial let's book that demo
so something we didn't talk about was
internal
links so typically when you're doing a
when you're building these page Pages
you want to make sure it's easy to CW
for Google so weaving in links to other
pages that suit so if you're talking
about I don't know um proposal software
for HR teams you might then link to a
guide so if you've got like an ultimate
proposal guide you might link to that if
you've got another HR page you might
link with that it just helps Google CW
it and could also build up something
called topical Authority when you're
trying to rank for more competitive
keywords um solid page design to hit
intent we talked about intent making
sure you've got a relevant page for what
go Google expects weaving in Social
proof to build trust and clear call to
actions as people scroll to that demo
sign up now publishing at scale so if
you are a startup a small team this is
your advantage this is how you can beat
Giants in your industry this is quite
literally when it comes to my own
website breaking B2B this is how we got
ahead of so many Giants in the SEO game
just by publishing content at ridiculous
pace and then worrying about optimizing
it later so we we literally published I
don't know 30 or 40 pages in our first
month or so around all of the target
money niches so when it comes to B2B web
design B2B SAS web development B2B web
development fintech B2B SAS SEO B2B SEO
Financial SEO all those pages just like
you can do for your relevant Niche and
offers and for your Alternatives and
your versus Pages your comparison pages
and more if you've got the ability to
list out your money keywords and then
build that content at scale then that's
going to put your head of the
competitors because a lot of giants in
the industry a lot of big ENT companies
have to go through super slow sign offs
they'll do their keyword research
they'll plan a page they'll eventually
get that page signed off a few weeks
later they'll pass it to design a few
weeks later they'll pass it to Dev a few
weeks later then they'll probably take
two to three months to sign off a few
pages at once whereas if you can publish
fast see how the page ranks give it a
few weeks to get crued and then make
improvements as you go because remember
your websit is a living organism there's
always things you can do improve scale
up and more and if you have got
questions as you go drop them in the
chat I will get to those soon or at the
end and let's pretend we've published it
scale so I recommend if you're taking
this approach to completely exhaust the
bottom of the funnel a lot of these
keywords I've talked about are bottom of
the funnel keywords so best proposal
software pandadoc Alternatives get
accept Alternatives or proposal software
for HR proposal software for recruitment
or whatever is relevant for your niche
of course um these are all pretty Bren
with funnel keywords no one's typing
that for fun they're typing that because
they need your offer and they want to
have a sales conversation so on the
basis that they see a page that hits
their pain points shows your points of
differentation build some Trust address
addresses their common questions
objections and makes it easy for them to
kind of book a demo or sign up then
chances are that page is going to drive
a steady flow of leads or signups so
absolutely exhaust the bottom of the
funnel get together with your sales team
your marketing team your success team
and look for all the options under those
types of keywords formats we've gone at
and Bash those pages out as quick as
humanly possible before you start
working up the funnel for more query
based
searches and then last all so you'll be
able to rank some of these Pages pretty
quick for example one of my clients wild
spark we built out what we did was what
we did earlier so we built out
Alternatives pages I think we built
seven or eight maybe nine different
Alternatives Pages for their main
competitors we just headed to G2 with
the client found out the main
competition the client shared with us
their main differentiators in the
marketplace the main problems they fix
where they pick up that the competitors
don't and these um comparison Pages for
so for example the deex Alternatives and
similar we got a lot of those ranking in
the top spots within 30
days and those have scooped up a bunch
of demo requests for wild spark as a
result so just shows what's possible in
a very short space of time especially if
there's not a lot of competition but
what you find for some of these more
competitive ke especially the more
generic keywords like best like best X
tool or best X software or best X
platform those are going to be a lot
more competitive typically depending on
your Niche so that's where you might
need to build back links to actually
juice up these keywords build Authority
on Google and yeah build up your domain
reputation so one of the best ways I'll
share a few ways to build links before
we wrap this thing up one of my favorite
ways is
Partnerships so as an example one of the
one really good way is to reach out to
all your current clients prospects
Network existing Partners prospects
Etc that serve the same Idol client
profile but are not direct competitors
so to give you a real example at
breaking B2B one of our partners is a
LinkedIn B2B linked ad LinkedIn ads
agencies called
impactable I know their owner their
founder Justin row so he was one of the
first guys I reached out to when I
wanted to rank B2B SEO agency page and
get that paid position one so I offered
him super lowrisk ass so I approached
him and said hey Justin got a bit of an
unusual I I'm a fan of painfully short
Outreach because it stands out so I said
hey Justin I've got an unusual idea to
to ramp up inbound leads for both of
both of us with SEO against the
conversation so that against the
conversation with a question mark opens
up the Curiosity Gap he said yeah sure
thing Sam what you thinking and I said
um I offered him a super low lift ask so
I offered to create him a guest ask on
his site in this case I created him an
article around kind of top ways to
reduce your bounce weight on your
website he published it I put a back
link to my target page my target keyword
and that gave us a nice little boost and
I did that with a bunch of different
kind of Partners within the network
within folks I'm connected to on
LinkedIn and similar so that's super
easy way to build links for kind of some
of those focused keywords another way
which is often neglected is podcast
guesting so a great site for this is
chartable if I can spell chartable
chartable oh helps if I can spell
it
chartable Doom cool so great way
to get PR build links get inbound leads
at scale so I recommend you go
to chart.com hit the charts you can go
apple or Spotify if I just click Apple
let's click Great Britain for now and if
I get to my sect
marketing so char
Apple podcast marketing I can see the
top 50 top 100 podcasts within my target
niche of course you can choose your own
Niche whatever is relevant then what you
can do is either have one of your exec
team maybe your CEO founder maybe your
head of marketing whoever is relevant
whoever's happy to go on these kind of
shows reach out to these folks whoever
you can find out who hosts the show I
recommend personalized requests on
LinkedIn that's what I normally do and
again a painfully short message find out
the shows that accept guests drop them a
note on LinkedIn like hey enjoyed your
recent epis episode take a quick listen
to one of the recent episodes pull out a
snippet hey enjoy a recent episode on X
especially the part on y would you be
against having me on to talk about XYZ
and then bunch of those folks will
accept do a few outreaches each day get
onto some shows record a great episode
give some valuable tips ideas insights
you can give a call to action to your
website your newsletter podcast whatever
at the end so it gives you some PR gives
you uh reach within their audience of
your ICP and you can ask them at the end
to give a back link so most of these
folks will have an article page an
individual article page for each podcast
episode they publish so you can ask for
a link back to one of your focus
keywords and get back link that way um
another way is pass media so if any of
your exact team CEO found or whatever
have been featured in blogs been
featured in articles been featured in
media you could go on a site like H
refs you could use the tab you go into
referring domain s and then you could
filter those and see some of these sites
that have actually linked to in the past
and then you could connect to those and
if any of those have got a random back
links so maybe they just linked to your
homepage or on relevant page or maybe
they don't at all maybe you've just got
a note on Excel sheet or old emails of
past press or similar that you've been
featured on reach out to whoever's
responsible for the article and say look
you featured us a while ago would you be
against changing this link to one of our
Focus
Pages apart from that other ways to
build l links build back links are do
unique insights or research reports so
whether that's surveys iners events
stats all that kind of stuff create
something that's so useful so unique so
valuable that other pages are linking to
it it's link worthy and then maybe
publish it on LinkedIn you publish it on
socials builds more traction around it
builds a bit of a flywheel effect and
then other folks are linking to your
research report because it is so
valuable and unusual um PR PR based
Outreach again similar kind of thing
you're doing unique unique Outreach
unique articles then reaching out to
journalists that can be a lot more
manual or you can use a team I might be
biased here but you could use a team
like mine at breaking bb.com to do all
this heavy lifting for you and build out
Niche relevant links that are genuinely
going to juice up your site and build up
your Authority we've got a couple
minutes left so if you have got a
question drop it within the chat and I
will get to it in a second yeah if we
wrap things
up so if we go back to the checklist so
prioritize money keywords start with
high intent I people that are wanting to
speak to sales now so that could
be directly searching for your
offer your offer plus industry a job
that you help get done okay could be
searching for alternative to your
solution so use sites like G2 or paid
review sites to find out all those they
could be searching for best like best X
software best X tool best xplatform they
could be versing which we didn't talk
about that much so they could be
comparing you against an alternative
like pandadoc versus propos a fight or
get accept versus Panda do and again
those would be kind of detailed article
Pages a bit like we ran through earlier
or it could be some kind of integration
so exhaust that list exhaust all those
pages and publish at scale follow best
practices when it comes to improving
including the keyword in the URL in the
heading tag and the H1 only one H1
best-in-class contents ideally you want
insights from customer success from
sales and more internal links so
leverage links to other pages that are
relevant so you can get it crued
faster make sure your page is actually
going to convince someone so no one
wants to see a wall of text make sure
your article page or solution page or
comparison page actually looks good on
mobile desktop PC so it's easy to
navigate maybe you've got a fixed lead
magnet maybe you've got signup call to
actions maybe you've got some nice
social proof testimonials video reviews
maybe you've got examples of your
product screenshots of your SAS or maybe
you've got a live video demo of your SAS
whatever it may be so people can
actually get inside the um inside the
product and make it easy for people to
book a cool as sales publish content at
scale and then build back links to the
more competitive keywords that aren't
ranking within kind of the first few
months because you can tell that they're
more competitive sectors or they're
probably high keyword difficulty showing
up on hats and similar tools so I hope
this session was useful if you want to
grab a free resource head over to
Breaking bb.com hit the newsletter Tab
and you can unlock my Ultimate Guide to
btb SEO
instantly or check out the podcast we've
got how many episodes we got 386 past
episodes around all this kind of stuff
btb SEO SAS SEO SAS web design and also
interviews with a bunch of marketing
leaders sharing their tips or lastly if
you maybe are frustrated that organic
search isn't driving a steady flow of
demos or leads then you can book a call
at breaking bb.com and I'll be happy to
chat to you and see if we can or can
help you feel free to grab those
resources over at breaking
bb.com and I shall catch you on the next
one
[Music]